Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome back to another episode of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Between Sermons. We are continuing our conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: from Sunday, and what an awesome conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was because we're in the middle
Pastor Brent McQuay: of a missions focus, missions emphasis at
Pastor Brent McQuay: the church. And so we've had some
Pastor Brent McQuay: special guests come through, and we're. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: got to hang out with Bishop Hurley
Pastor Brent McQuay: Montes from the Philippines on Sunday. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just. I love the Montez family.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love the Philippines. And so what
Pastor Brent McQuay: was great, though, is he just taught
Pastor Brent McQuay: us how to be Disciples, which at
Pastor Brent McQuay: Disciples Church, that's pretty important for us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we're going to dive into
Pastor Brent McQuay: all those things today, what it means
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be a disciple, Philippines Missions. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: in order to do that, I need
Pastor Brent McQuay: some people to talk to that love
Pastor Brent McQuay: missions as much as me.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Let's go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We just determined five seconds ago that
Pastor Brent McQuay: Taisha is so, so passionate. I am
Pastor Brent McQuay: excited about missions.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Thank you. Thank you for that amazing
Pastor Harry Valentine: introduction. I am passionate and excited. We
Pastor Harry Valentine: are all passionate and excited about missions,
Pastor Harry Valentine: right? Thanks for joining us, Pastor Harry.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Are you excited and passionate?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. Why passionate? Because. Listen. Okay, we'll
Ti'heasha Beasley: start it. Listen. Missions has changed my
Ti'heasha Beasley: life. So we'll get into that, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, as we. That was. Unpack it
Ti'heasha Beasley: all. But it really has.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I love that. You should have jumped
Pastor Harry Valentine: it just to him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, I set it up.
Pastor Harry Valentine: You set it up. I caught the
Pastor Harry Valentine: ball and handed it to you. Six,
Pastor Harry Valentine: seven. I love you so much.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love you both. But that's it
Pastor Brent McQuay: for today. Hope you had a wonderful
Pastor Brent McQuay: time.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was there.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Pastor Harry did it. He did this.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I had to add the numbers. Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Nobody knows why we're laughing so much.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We had a whole conversation. So Harry's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a youth pastor. I have teenagers, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a teenager. And this whole lingo
Pastor Brent McQuay: of junior high boys is just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's different.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's just. It's a lot.
Pastor Harry Valentine: It's a lot. We're learning as we
Pastor Harry Valentine: go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's too much.
Pastor Harry Valentine: It was relevant to the conversation, but
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm excited to talk about missions, and
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm so glad to have someone here
Pastor Harry Valentine: who's just as passionate about missions as
Pastor Harry Valentine: you are, Pastor Brent.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So.
Pastor Harry Valentine: But, yeah, before we dive in the
Pastor Harry Valentine: heart of missions and why you're so
Pastor Harry Valentine: passionate, Pastor Brent, give us a little
Pastor Harry Valentine: information about our relationship with the Philippines
Pastor Harry Valentine: church and the pastor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah. So he gave us a
Pastor Brent McQuay: little bit of a background on Sunday
Pastor Brent McQuay: of what that relationship with Pastor Jerry
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, basically. Long story short, there
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a conference that we were part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of in the Philippines. So I'm telling
Pastor Brent McQuay: my dad's side of the story since
Pastor Brent McQuay: we didn't get that on Sunday. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: my dad's there to. To speak at
Pastor Brent McQuay: this conference. It's his first time back
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the Philippines since leaving the Philippines.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He was a missionary there, and there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a whole heartbreaking story of illness forcing
Pastor Brent McQuay: them out of the missions field. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so we joke. I think we talked
Pastor Brent McQuay: about this last week a little bit
Pastor Brent McQuay: maybe about how Pastor Jerry is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: missionary stuck in a pastor's body. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so, like, his heart is missions. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so it was his first time back
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the Philippines and it was just
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of an overwhelming moment.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he's at this conference and there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just this young group of, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what he thought were high school or
Pastor Brent McQuay: college age kids that were just passionate
Pastor Brent McQuay: about God. Like the worship that they
Pastor Brent McQuay: were doing. Their expression of worship, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: should say. During the conference, he was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just like, you guys are impressed. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to meet your pastor. And they
Pastor Brent McQuay: said, well, our pastor isn't here today,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but he'll be here tomorrow. We'll introduce
Pastor Brent McQuay: you. And the two guys that he
Pastor Brent McQuay: was talking to was actually Joel Montez
Pastor Brent McQuay: and Jesser.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the two of them are now
Pastor Brent McQuay: campus pastors. Well, actually Joel is Pastor
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hurley's son, who is their executive pastor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then Jesser and his wife are.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They actually just had a baby like
Pastor Brent McQuay: two days ago. So congratulations again. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was like it was their core
Pastor Brent McQuay: youth ministry at the time. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: the church was about 200 people, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: this was their youth ministry.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so PJ got to meet Bishop
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hurley and man just connected immediately and
Pastor Brent McQuay: had this kind of growing relationship off
Pastor Brent McQuay: and on for like a year, basically.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just messaging and asking for support and
Pastor Brent McQuay: help and just advice and kind of
Pastor Brent McQuay: that mentoring relationship really started off very
Pastor Brent McQuay: quickly. And it's funny, I want to
Pastor Brent McQuay: say the timeline was like one year,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but I could. We'd have to bring
Pastor Brent McQuay: Pastor Jerry in to get the timeline
Pastor Brent McQuay: exact. But I think it was about
Pastor Brent McQuay: a year later, Pastor Jerry went back
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the Philippines to visit Bishop Hurley.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And as they're walking up the stairs
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the church that they had rented
Pastor Brent McQuay: the facility on the door, it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: our logo and it said CLC Deva
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christian Life Center. Devour. And that's when
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hurley was like, oh, yeah, by the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way, can. Can we just be you?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it was. It was like such
Pastor Brent McQuay: a. Like, it was such a cool
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment, but also like totally out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: nowhere, like, it was. It was. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: had relationship, but Bishop just really, really
Pastor Brent McQuay: strongly after leaving his denomination, just felt
Pastor Brent McQuay: like he needed spiritual covering. And so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like kind of without really asking, they
Pastor Brent McQuay: just became Christian life. Center. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: from there to now, like they've just
Pastor Brent McQuay: exploded.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Actually, before we told the congregation about
Pastor Brent McQuay: our name change, I was in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Philippines talking with Bishop Hurley and Joel
Pastor Brent McQuay: about the name change. And the two
Pastor Brent McQuay: of them got so excited. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think Joel was kind of ready in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the moment to be like, we're changing
Pastor Brent McQuay: too. And then Bishop was like, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: have 44 churches that we rent. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: have multiple vehicles with signage on them.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We have like, yeah, that's a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: to try and change. And he's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what if we just became Christian Life
Pastor Brent McQuay: Centered Disciples Church? And it's funny because
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the Philippines they are known as
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Disciple church. Like they're the disciple
Pastor Brent McQuay: making church. So much so that other
Pastor Brent McQuay: churches have begun to ask them for
Pastor Brent McQuay: mentoring so that they could become disciple
Pastor Brent McQuay: making churches. And so, yeah, while, While
Pastor Brent McQuay: they've got 40 something campuses, there's another
Pastor Brent McQuay: like 30 church plants that are starting
Pastor Brent McQuay: through them. They call them outreaches. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's basically you take a small group
Pastor Brent McQuay: leader and you send them into an
Pastor Brent McQuay: area and he just starts doing outreach
Pastor Brent McQuay: and raising up. And once they develop
Pastor Brent McQuay: enough people, they turn it into a
Pastor Brent McQuay: campus. So they've got 40 something now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's like another 30 that are in
Pastor Brent McQuay: development. And then on top of that
Pastor Brent McQuay: they've got, they're part of multiple networks
Pastor Brent McQuay: of churches.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think the biggest one, it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: 94,000 churches in the Philippines that, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: they kind of oversee and help guide.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so it's just, honestly it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing what the, the Montez family is
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing in the Philippines. And the fact
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we get to be a small
Pastor Brent McQuay: part of it is just really neat.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, so yeah, so every year we
Pastor Brent McQuay: do at least one trip out to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Philippines for they, they do a,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they call it CLC Phil Con. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: their like church conference. Like we would
Pastor Brent McQuay: do First Love.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But for them, they just, they bring
Pastor Brent McQuay: in all of their different campuses. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's funny because they, they have to
Pastor Brent McQuay: restrict the number of people that some
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the campus can bring. In fact,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the main Davao campus, I think this
Pastor Brent McQuay: year he said that they, they could
Pastor Brent McQuay: only bring like 200 or 300, even
Pastor Brent McQuay: though it's housed at their church because
Pastor Brent McQuay: they want to make space for all
Pastor Brent McQuay: the other churches coming together. And it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just like, it's just a mass of
Pastor Brent McQuay: people. Like they bring their whole pastoral
Pastor Brent McQuay: team up on the stage and it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: larger than most churches in the U.S.
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, it's just nuts. It's really cool.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Why do you think there's Such a
Pastor Harry Valentine: hunger and so much growth in that
Pastor Harry Valentine: church over there.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. So I think that there's just
Pastor Brent McQuay: a real desire for genuine relationship with
Pastor Brent McQuay: God. So I think that there's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: little bit of. There's a wild history
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the Philippines of Spanish control and
Pastor Brent McQuay: occupation and then the US involvement. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the mix of all of that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they were introduced to Catholicism, but it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was during Spanish occupation. And so it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a really negative relationship between Catholicism and
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Filipino people. Even though a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: are still following and practicing it, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: still like this. Like it's. The conquerors
Pastor Brent McQuay: came and imposed this thing on us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so when the American troops came
Pastor Brent McQuay: over and started introducing evangelical Christianity to
Pastor Brent McQuay: them, it was like, oh, like this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is different. Like now instead of it
Pastor Brent McQuay: just being the priest that has a
Pastor Brent McQuay: relationship with God and then I'm just
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to get it through the priest.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Now all of a sudden you're saying
Pastor Brent McQuay: that I can actually just have relationship
Pastor Brent McQuay: with God myself. And so there's just
Pastor Brent McQuay: a real passion, a real hunger for
Pastor Brent McQuay: that that's been growing for four years.
Pastor Brent McQuay: As far as their growth, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: they would attribute it to. They have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a model of disciple making which is
Pastor Brent McQuay: called the G12, which is very prevalent
Pastor Brent McQuay: in Latin America and some Asian countries.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think it started in Columbia, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not mistaken. I forget the exact.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Somebody will correct me. I think it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: Columbia.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Someone, someone.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Someone on the interwebs will be like
Pastor Brent McQuay: that pastor doesn't know what he's talking
Pastor Brent McQuay: about. That's why I preface with I.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know. I think it's, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think it's Columbia. But anyways, the G12
Pastor Brent McQuay: movement, it's, it's. Sometimes we joke that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like the multi level marketing of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christianity in the country because it's, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: basically you get 12 disciples and once
Pastor Brent McQuay: you incorporate them and, and do all
Pastor Brent McQuay: the things that Bishop talked about on
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sunday, then their job is to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: and get 12. But it becomes very
Pastor Brent McQuay: much like, you got your 12 yet
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, how's your 12 coming? Where's your
Pastor Brent McQuay: 12? You got your 12, how's your
Pastor Brent McQuay: 12 doing? 12 every 12. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything is built around this. You get
Pastor Brent McQuay: 12 disciples. Like Jesus had 12 disciples
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then your 12 disciples get 12.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then you have a one four,
Pastor Brent McQuay: four. And then that's where my math
Pastor Brent McQuay: doesn't work anymore because then you're 1
Pastor Brent McQuay: 4, 4. They all get 12. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so somebody could probably do the math
Pastor Brent McQuay: on that a lot quicker than me.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like 2000, 4000 math. English was
Pastor Brent McQuay: my thing, I just wasn't good at
Pastor Brent McQuay: anything. But yeah, so it's one of
Pastor Brent McQuay: those. It much. What I love about
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is the priority of evangelism. Teaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody the gospel and then walking through
Pastor Brent McQuay: a discipleship relationship with them is fantastic.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What I don't love about it, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think sometimes is the control and the
Pastor Brent McQuay: time commitment. And so we see some
Pastor Brent McQuay: unhealthiness of like work life balance kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of stuff and family balance and dynamics.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I think it's a wonderful
Pastor Brent McQuay: model that's working where it's working. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't think it translates to every country.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we're seeing amazing things happen
Pastor Brent McQuay: through it, especially with young people, high
Pastor Brent McQuay: school and college campuses. It's like, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: this is exactly what college students need.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I love that aspect of
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, for sure.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Awesome. So I loved that yesterday we
Pastor Harry Valentine: got reminded again to be disciples of
Pastor Harry Valentine: Jesus Christ. But I think when I
Pastor Harry Valentine: was thinking over, like really what to
Pastor Harry Valentine: talk about in this conversation, it led
Pastor Harry Valentine: me to the connection between discipleship and
Pastor Harry Valentine: missions. And it just stood out to
Pastor Harry Valentine: me because you have the 12 disciples,
Pastor Harry Valentine: original disciples, and how God, you know,
Pastor Harry Valentine: spent. Jesus spent three years with them,
Pastor Harry Valentine: walked with them, and then he sent
Pastor Harry Valentine: them out. And is that a model
Pastor Harry Valentine: that you think we should adapt here?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Meaning should it be just like your
Pastor Harry Valentine: disciple go out, or should it be
Pastor Harry Valentine: walk with this person that's discipling you
Pastor Harry Valentine: for three years and then go out
Pastor Harry Valentine: and duplicate what they're doing? Like let's,
Pastor Harry Valentine: let's start there. What are your thoughts
Pastor Harry Valentine: on that?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, I would say the answer is
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably a little bit more complicated than
Pastor Brent McQuay: what you're looking for is like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: direct black and white kind of thing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because yes, everybody is supposed to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: and make disciples now. But is going
Pastor Brent McQuay: mean leaving your country behind and going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to another country? Well, no, because then
Pastor Brent McQuay: where does that leave the current country?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we actually, we see that
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the, the development of the first
Pastor Brent McQuay: century church. So like when Paul tells
Pastor Brent McQuay: Timothy to make disciples, he doesn't tell
Pastor Brent McQuay: him to leave the city he's in.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think Timothy was in Ephesus. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: doesn't tell him to leave the city.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He tells him to take some men
Pastor Brent McQuay: that are around him that are faithful
Pastor Brent McQuay: and pass on what I've been teaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: you to those men. Like he's actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: entrusting a local church to Timothy while
Pastor Brent McQuay: still telling him to go and make
Pastor Brent McQuay: disciples. So the going is more of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the action verb, less than just purely
Pastor Brent McQuay: location. And then Jesus instructions to us
Pastor Brent McQuay: is, it's like this ever expanding circle
Pastor Brent McQuay: of influence. I Guess would be one
Pastor Brent McQuay: way to put it. So you're supposed
Pastor Brent McQuay: to start in your hometown, in your
Pastor Brent McQuay: city, and then you hit the region
Pastor Brent McQuay: around it, and then the region around
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. And then the last step is
Pastor Brent McQuay: to all the nations. And so I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think that there are people who immediately
Pastor Brent McQuay: their call is the nations, while there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: also people who. Their immediate call is
Pastor Brent McQuay: their. Their neighborhood, like their backyard.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we need everybody doing all
Pastor Brent McQuay: of it, and not just everybody doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: one part of it. If all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Americans go to the nations, who's gonna.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Who's gonna witness to the Americans that
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't have Jesus yet?
Pastor Harry Valentine: That's true.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, yeah, that's kind of my. My
Pastor Brent McQuay: take on it.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Where did it start for you? Did
Pastor Harry Valentine: it start, like, I know you said
Pastor Harry Valentine: you have a passion for then.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Going on missions. Did it start locally
Pastor Harry Valentine: for you? Like, how did that. How
Pastor Harry Valentine: did that for you?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, we start. We started a beautiful
Ti'heasha Beasley: church in Blue island. And of course,
Ti'heasha Beasley: God sent me there first. Right. That's
Ti'heasha Beasley: the first thing. I was in service.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And then he said, okay, it's time
Ti'heasha Beasley: for you to go. And so I
Ti'heasha Beasley: went from Tinley park to Blue island
Ti'heasha Beasley: nearby. And then Pastor Brent and so
Ti'heasha Beasley: came over as campus pastors. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: as they were, you know, laying foundations,
Ti'heasha Beasley: sowing seeds in terms of where we
Ti'heasha Beasley: were going, where we were headed. Of
Ti'heasha Beasley: course, the missionary that's inside of Brent.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. Pastor Brent, he brought that. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: we were planning to go to Russia.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Out of all trips.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I said, this is the one.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Russia I'm going.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Can we just appreciate that? That was
Pastor Brent McQuay: my brilliant idea. I became campus pastor
Pastor Brent McQuay: in Blue island, predominantly Hispanic population. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: said, let's take all of these Hispanics
Pastor Brent McQuay: and let's go to Russia.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we're not just going to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Russia. We're going to go to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Siberia. Yes. It was a brilliant idea.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Everybody looked at me like I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a genius. No, they all looked like.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How many was on that team?
Pastor Brent McQuay: There was like nine or ten of
Pastor Brent McQuay: us. I think maybe a dozen. It
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a good sized team.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So my first missionary journey.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Siberia.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Siberia.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Oh, my goodness.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. And amazing. I mean, even just
Ti'heasha Beasley: from, you know, our planning and team
Ti'heasha Beasley: building and everything that took place, the
Ti'heasha Beasley: training, when I got there, you was
Ti'heasha Beasley: immediately thrown into the mission. Right. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: didn't have time to think, get off
Ti'heasha Beasley: the plane. And it was like, okay,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we're sending you over to this town
Ti'heasha Beasley: to talk about children's ministry, to speak
Ti'heasha Beasley: on children's ministry. Let me tell you,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm just a few months into this
Ti'heasha Beasley: Children's ministry thing. So I'm like, first
Ti'heasha Beasley: of all, I'm not even qualified to
Ti'heasha Beasley: be going to tell nobody about me.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Speak to who?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Where? I think I sent soul with
Pastor Brent McQuay: you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You did, but, I mean, that was
Ti'heasha Beasley: help, right? But it just goes to
Ti'heasha Beasley: show you that you may feel inadequate,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you may not feel that you're qualified,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but God sees you as qualified. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: it wasn't until I was in front
Ti'heasha Beasley: of the people, and you see the
Ti'heasha Beasley: love, the care, that you realize that
Ti'heasha Beasley: what God has placed on the inside
Ti'heasha Beasley: of you is there. Just have to
Ti'heasha Beasley: be obedient and going to use it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so just even in that moment,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you start to see that this. This
Ti'heasha Beasley: path, this purpose, this journey, it's a
Ti'heasha Beasley: subject to change. You just never know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right? And so you have to be
Ti'heasha Beasley: flexible. You're just responsible for your. Yes,
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's what you're responsible for. And the
Ti'heasha Beasley: guy does the rest. And so it
Ti'heasha Beasley: was from that moment on, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: we were there for, like, 10 days.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We were there for a long time.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And here's the thing. Early mornings, late
Ti'heasha Beasley: nights, we did not leave that church.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We were building the body of Christ
Ti'heasha Beasley: from music. And it developed every day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, the.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Every day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Every day.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This trip, like that trip to Russia
Pastor Brent McQuay: still goes down as one of my,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, hands down, top three, top five,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know. And I've done maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: 30, 40 trips at this point, led
Pastor Brent McQuay: different teams, been a part of other
Pastor Brent McQuay: teams, other people leading. And that Russia
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip is still, like, one of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: most special because it was one of
Pastor Brent McQuay: those where by the time we got
Pastor Brent McQuay: there, we realized that God had put
Pastor Brent McQuay: together the team for what the people
Pastor Brent McQuay: needed in a way that I've always
Pastor Brent McQuay: seen that happen on trips where it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, man, thank God that this person
Pastor Brent McQuay: was here, because it's true. But never
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the level of this trip. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was like, we show up and
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're like, man, we really just don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know what to do with children's ministry.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm like, oh, well, my children's director
Pastor Brent McQuay: and my wife, who was the children's
Pastor Brent McQuay: pastor, they're here. They can help you
Pastor Brent McQuay: with that. And they're like, yeah, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: our music production, like, our worship team,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, there's just so many questions they
Pastor Brent McQuay: have. I'm like, oh, Alan Franklin is
Pastor Brent McQuay: on this trip, too. He runs a
Pastor Brent McQuay: music school and is our worship leader.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He can help with that. They're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, you know, one of our outreach
Pastor Brent McQuay: projects, you know, doing esl, like, helping
Pastor Brent McQuay: Russians learn. And it's like, oh, actually,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jade has her background in ESL training.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, how about Jade just runs, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: an ESL thing? And they're like, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but, you know, we really just need
Pastor Brent McQuay: some manual labor to just, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: build a bridge at this orphanage that
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have, because we can't get supplies
Pastor Brent McQuay: to it without the bridge. And one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of my guys, like, I've been taking
Pastor Brent McQuay: welding classes. I would love to help
Pastor Brent McQuay: out with that. And, like, we literally,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, just everything that they asked us
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do was, like, random, unexpected. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what we went there to do, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: barely did.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we were like you said it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was. It was from early morning to
Pastor Brent McQuay: late night, extremely busy every single day.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And just the connection for the people,
Pastor Brent McQuay: even. Even now, like, guys like Vanya
Pastor Brent McQuay: are just, like. They're just always on
Pastor Brent McQuay: my prayers, always on my mind. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: relationship with Ilya and the whole Bans
Pastor Brent McQuay: Eve's family, like, what they're doing, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: now they're working in Israel. And so,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the relationship has continued, but it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: moved from one country to another. But,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, man, that trip is always gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: go down. That's trip. I've shared the
Pastor Brent McQuay: story before. I'll go ahead and share
Pastor Brent McQuay: it again because it's still one of
Pastor Brent McQuay: my favorite things.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Passionate.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was. We were. We were heading
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the mall to eat, and we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: walking up. And this is after, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: five or six days in Russia, in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Siberia, and we're walking up to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: mall. And I told the pastor's wife,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was like, I gotta be honest,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, coming here, like, we kind of
Pastor Brent McQuay: had an expectation of what Russians were
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, because. Because like every 80s and
Pastor Brent McQuay: 90s action movie, the bad guy was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a Russian. Like it.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Watch any of them. Like, there's never
Pastor Brent McQuay: anybody but a Russian as the bad
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy in the 80s and 90s. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so all these action flicks, it's always
Pastor Brent McQuay: this hard, cold, mean, angry Russian. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the stereotypical joke of, like, Russians are
Pastor Brent McQuay: just cold people. And, like, I'm. I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying that, like, almost apologetically, like, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: so sorry. They're like, we. Because that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not been our experience. Like, the Russian
Pastor Brent McQuay: people have been amazing. And she's like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: She kind of laughed at first. She's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just like, oh, no, no, no. Russians
Pastor Brent McQuay: are very cold, very angry, very hard
Pastor Brent McQuay: people. She's like, but we're not Russians.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're Christians. Wow. And, like, that statement,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, being there and experiencing that, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that just. That just rocked my world
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the point where I was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, I hope other people look at.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Look at us the same way. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Man, Americans are so loud and obnoxious
Pastor Brent McQuay: and all this, all the stereotypical American
Pastor Brent McQuay: things. But man, I come here and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you people are different. It's like, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's because we're believers. We're believers first.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah, that's great.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That trip, I mean, we could, it
Ti'heasha Beasley: could be an hour. We could talk
Ti'heasha Beasley: about that trip for an hour, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, another point, a moment on that
Ti'heasha Beasley: trip, being in the church, helping building
Ti'heasha Beasley: a body. But then we went out
Ti'heasha Beasley: and did some canvassing, right. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: we end up at a park. I've
Ti'heasha Beasley: never played Frisbee.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep, it was ultimate Frisbee.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Ultimate Frisbee. Yep. And this is when
Ti'heasha Beasley: I still had, you know, some, some
Ti'heasha Beasley: legs. I was younger. But that moment
Ti'heasha Beasley: with other people just kind of, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, having fun, playing a game. Language
Ti'heasha Beasley: barrier was there, but you saw the
Ti'heasha Beasley: joy, you saw the fun, you saw
Ti'heasha Beasley: the just the compassion and the love
Ti'heasha Beasley: that we had for just that moment,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, that was an opportunity to
Ti'heasha Beasley: give Christ right to people through a
Ti'heasha Beasley: game. Right. And so oftentimes when you
Ti'heasha Beasley: hear missionary journey, you hear about missions,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're thinking, man, it's just going to
Ti'heasha Beasley: be us, like just speaking and teaching
Ti'heasha Beasley: and praying. And although that happens, that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: necessary, that's essential. But you do have
Ti'heasha Beasley: those moments on the plane, you have
Ti'heasha Beasley: those moments during prayer, do our devotional.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You have moments when we're out and
Ti'heasha Beasley: about that are really life changing. Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: the family dynamic that is established on
Ti'heasha Beasley: a missions trip with a team, it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: like no other. Like no other. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: cannot get that type of a relationship
Ti'heasha Beasley: moment with people 10 days early, late,
Ti'heasha Beasley: everything in between. I need you, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: need me. You're my eyes. I'm your
Ti'heasha Beasley: eyes. It's something that, it forms a
Ti'heasha Beasley: beautiful bond that even to this day,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, we have such strong relationship
Ti'heasha Beasley: because of the mission field. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: I really want to just help people
Ti'heasha Beasley: to see that we are called to
Ti'heasha Beasley: go. But God has a plan and
Ti'heasha Beasley: purpose to do something in us also
Ti'heasha Beasley: while we're there. And so, man, I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: caring. Get registered. Put a QR code,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Put it somewhere. Get registered to go
Ti'heasha Beasley: on these go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: DC DOT one missions.
Ti'heasha Beasley: There it is.
Pastor Harry Valentine: That's it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Do it. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So you did Russia. What was next
Pastor Brent McQuay: after Russia?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Croatia.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Croatia with the worship team.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Which is great because you weren't a
Pastor Brent McQuay: worship anything, but they gave you a
Pastor Brent McQuay: different. They gave you a cajon, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or they gave you like a box
Pastor Brent McQuay: drum or something.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Box drum, let's go.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They're like, Harry can keep it deep.
Pastor Harry Valentine: But he was like, just Pounding away.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Whatever worship song we trained. I was
Ti'heasha Beasley: singing, I was worshiping. And here's the
Ti'heasha Beasley: thing. It's a different level of stretching.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And God loves to stretch us. He
Ti'heasha Beasley: does, right? And so now we're like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: hey, we're going to be literally in
Ti'heasha Beasley: the streets of Croatia. Stop. Plot right
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the middle of the town, and
Ti'heasha Beasley: we're going to worship skits. And then
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're going to go and share the
Ti'heasha Beasley: gospel and pray for people. Hold on,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wait. What? Right. This is what I
Ti'heasha Beasley: signed up for. And you go and
Ti'heasha Beasley: you do it. Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm still jealous of that trip because
Pastor Brent McQuay: y' all got to impress Dr. Strange.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We saw Dr. Strange.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You hear me? Like, the real Dr.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sham Cumberbatch, really? Or however you pronounce
Pastor Brent McQuay: his name.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because we're in a. We're in the
Ti'heasha Beasley: airport.
Pastor Brent McQuay: In the airport, practicing. Yeah, Is the
Pastor Brent McQuay: story I got. And he just walks
Pastor Brent McQuay: by.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was like, I loved it. Love
Ti'heasha Beasley: what you guys are doing. And of
Ti'heasha Beasley: course, he had security and he got
Ti'heasha Beasley: up out of there, right?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But again, it's like those stretching moments,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, in the airport during that time,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, social nowadays, you see people always
Ti'heasha Beasley: just. They got a camera, and they're
Ti'heasha Beasley: just like, my audience is here. They
Ti'heasha Beasley: could care less who's around them. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: back then, we didn't have that much
Ti'heasha Beasley: right. And so the crowd that we
Ti'heasha Beasley: would engage with when we're in the
Ti'heasha Beasley: airport, and Jen's like, hey, okay, let's
Ti'heasha Beasley: go. Let's do it. And we just
Ti'heasha Beasley: get to singing and get to worshiping
Ti'heasha Beasley: and doing our skits, man, it was
Ti'heasha Beasley: such a. It was rich, right? It
Ti'heasha Beasley: was stretching, for sure. But to see
Ti'heasha Beasley: the people around smiling and enjoy. Because
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're worshiping about Jesus, like, you hear
Ti'heasha Beasley: Jesus in the songs, and so you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know that we're not just randomly here
Ti'heasha Beasley: doing anything. So to see just the
Ti'heasha Beasley: love and the. The joy and the
Ti'heasha Beasley: appreciation that the people was actually engaging
Ti'heasha Beasley: with us was actually cool. Before we
Ti'heasha Beasley: even touched down to Croatia, like, this
Ti'heasha Beasley: was before we touched down. So we
Ti'heasha Beasley: were getting to practice in, to kind
Ti'heasha Beasley: of be uncomfortable, finding comfort in the
Ti'heasha Beasley: uncomfortable moments. So that when we got
Ti'heasha Beasley: there, it was like, all right, let's
Ti'heasha Beasley: do it. But, yeah, man, special moments
Ti'heasha Beasley: like that you don't get. Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Russia to Croatia and Kenya and co.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Led that trip with Jen. We went
Ti'heasha Beasley: there, and I had a surreal moment
Ti'heasha Beasley: because I was. When I touched down,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I said, harry, you're in Africa. Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: that. That right there just. It was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It changed everything, man, for me, because
Ti'heasha Beasley: I never would have thought that a
Ti'heasha Beasley: kid from the south side of Chicago,
Ti'heasha Beasley: right? All the terrible decisions that this
Ti'heasha Beasley: kid has made to be walking on
Ti'heasha Beasley: the soil in Africa. And that trip,
Ti'heasha Beasley: short story, maybe long. I ended up
Ti'heasha Beasley: getting sick. I got sick because, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, you have to prepare. You have
Ti'heasha Beasley: to take the different medication for. For
Ti'heasha Beasley: Kenya, or yellow fever, all the things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So what I did was I took
Ti'heasha Beasley: malaria, maybe malaria. There it is. Malaria
Ti'heasha Beasley: pills. I took the pills before I
Ti'heasha Beasley: left, but the time difference. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm like, wait, did I. I couldn't
Ti'heasha Beasley: remember. Took another pill. And so I
Ti'heasha Beasley: ended up getting sick, right? And the
Ti'heasha Beasley: first day we were there, I couldn't
Ti'heasha Beasley: even engage. I was in the room
Ti'heasha Beasley: all day, and they loved on me,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, made sure that I was
Ti'heasha Beasley: good that evening. Each night, the kids
Ti'heasha Beasley: from the orphanage would get together, pray
Ti'heasha Beasley: and worship at the end of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: night, and they heard, found out that
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was in the room sick, and
Ti'heasha Beasley: they said, could we pray for him?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Is he okay enough to come in
Ti'heasha Beasley: for us to pray for him? So
Ti'heasha Beasley: at that time, I was feeling better.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They brought me in. I've never experienced
Ti'heasha Beasley: love like that before. Them babies praying
Ti'heasha Beasley: in their language.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Covering.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Me, hugging on me, worshiping and just
Ti'heasha Beasley: praying. Everybody from the littlest tiny baby
Ti'heasha Beasley: all the way up to a high
Ti'heasha Beasley: schooler, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: You came to do the ministry and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you got ministry, which is the story
Pastor Brent McQuay: of just about everybody that goes on
Pastor Brent McQuay: a missions trip.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I got a picture that one of
Ti'heasha Beasley: the teams they took of me. I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: weeping. I'm just. I'm done. I'm done.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, I. And two kids to this
Ti'heasha Beasley: day, just changed my life, Sarah. Every
Ti'heasha Beasley: day of that trip, we were together.
Ti'heasha Beasley: She found me early in the morning,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and I held her until we went
Ti'heasha Beasley: out to the field every single day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: She's a big girl now, but she
Ti'heasha Beasley: was just a little bitty old baby
Ti'heasha Beasley: that just kept close with me. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: these are the moments, man, again, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I would have never experienced those, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, had I not said yes to
Ti'heasha Beasley: go, you know? And let me tell
Ti'heasha Beasley: you, the next day, I was up
Ti'heasha Beasley: and out. Them prayers worked, got me
Ti'heasha Beasley: up right. Right away. And experience. Yeah,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Kenya, it was great. It's amazing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Then you did Israel, was that after
Pastor Brent McQuay: Kenya.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So we did New York, so we
Ti'heasha Beasley: stayed local. We took first year, we
Ti'heasha Beasley: took 30 students. Now, that was crazy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That was a lot. But. But, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, we're talking out of the country,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but this is local. Yeah, Same impact.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Same impact, right. For students to see.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's awesome. Ministry that you worked with
Pastor Brent McQuay: in New York.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. Metro Road child.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So that was another Experience for
Ti'heasha Beasley: students to actually kind of get their
Ti'heasha Beasley: feet wet as it relates to going
Ti'heasha Beasley: and being sent. And great organization. The
Ti'heasha Beasley: students and their experience that they had,
Ti'heasha Beasley: not only with each other, but going
Ti'heasha Beasley: out into the different boroughs of New
Ti'heasha Beasley: York, traveling throughout, all week long, up
Ti'heasha Beasley: early. And so they were able to
Ti'heasha Beasley: go into the low income environments. Right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And just door knock, spreading the gospel,
Ti'heasha Beasley: inviting them out to the sidewalk ministry
Ti'heasha Beasley: that we were going to do at
Ti'heasha Beasley: the end of the week. But you
Ti'heasha Beasley: saw students take that step of faith.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. And so we actually pull back.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You know, we let them go. They
Ti'heasha Beasley: trained up and they go out and
Ti'heasha Beasley: for them to do that, to pray
Ti'heasha Beasley: for the families the kids be a
Ti'heasha Beasley: part of, the skits on the side,
Ti'heasha Beasley: on the streets. And it just, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: saw their growth each and every day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so it was great to see
Ti'heasha Beasley: that we could still do those things
Ti'heasha Beasley: locally. Oftentimes people hear missions and they're
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, I gotta go out of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: country. I don't know if I'm be
Ti'heasha Beasley: able to do that. Well, we have
Ti'heasha Beasley: so much to do here at home.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. If that's just a few hours
Ti'heasha Beasley: away in New York or a few
Ti'heasha Beasley: hours away in Moline, Illinois. Right. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: can do. You can have impact here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You just, you should. Yes. Just say
Ti'heasha Beasley: yes and just go. So no, that
Ti'heasha Beasley: was great. And then from there we
Ti'heasha Beasley: went to Japan or Israel.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Israel, I think you did Israel and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then we did Japan.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Israel and then Japan. Yep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Israel, Japan and then Panama.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Costa Rica.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You did Costa Rica? Yeah. I didn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know you were on the.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I led that trip, man.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I don't feel like I should be
Pastor Harry Valentine: on the show at this point. I
Pastor Harry Valentine: don't have.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They called it the book. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And I wanted you to walk
Pastor Brent McQuay: through some of that because, like, literally
Pastor Brent McQuay: it just. It started with 1.
Ti'heasha Beasley: 1.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes. And all of a sudden you
Pastor Brent McQuay: realize, like, there's so much that God
Pastor Brent McQuay: can do and wants to do in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the nations and I get to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a part of it. And it's just,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's an incredible journey. And I know
Pastor Brent McQuay: you'll do. You're doing Panama again this
Pastor Brent McQuay: year with the youth or next year
Pastor Brent McQuay: with the youth.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it's just, I think that more
Pastor Brent McQuay: people need to experience what you experienced.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I agree. And you get to, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, people talk about the financial piece
Ti'heasha Beasley: when I start to actually, like, if
Ti'heasha Beasley: God wants you there, he'll get you
Ti'heasha Beasley: there. Yeah, I really. What was this?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Russia. I think I had. Man, I
Ti'heasha Beasley: had over a thousand dollars left. Still
Ti'heasha Beasley: left. No, actually it was Croatia. No,
Ti'heasha Beasley: take that. It was Kenya. It Was
Ti'heasha Beasley: Kenya. So it was Kenya.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Too many trips, right?
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was Kenya. It was Kenya. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think I had like $2,000 left
Ti'heasha Beasley: on that trip. I get an email
Ti'heasha Beasley: from Jen that, oh, someone paid your
Ti'heasha Beasley: trip in full.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Wow, it's wild.
Ti'heasha Beasley: All we're doing is just praying, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: God, could you do it now? I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: doing my part too. I'm doing my
Ti'heasha Beasley: part. I'm using a resource that Pastor
Ti'heasha Beasley: Jerry spoke about. I'm engaging with my
Ti'heasha Beasley: community to, hey, this is what God
Ti'heasha Beasley: is sending me to do. This is
Ti'heasha Beasley: what I know I'm called to and
Ti'heasha Beasley: they're responding. It was just, you know,
Ti'heasha Beasley: it takes some time. Right. And to
Ti'heasha Beasley: get that anonymous. I didn't find out
Ti'heasha Beasley: who the person was years later.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Wow.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Years later. Because they came up to
Ti'heasha Beasley: me in church and just like, I
Ti'heasha Beasley: really. You encouraged me to see that
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're obedient to what God is doing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And that year, you know that I
Ti'heasha Beasley: saw you going on that trip, I
Ti'heasha Beasley: just felt that God was telling me
Ti'heasha Beasley: to bless you, to send you, because
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm just not in a place to
Ti'heasha Beasley: go, like physically go, but if I
Ti'heasha Beasley: can't go, I could sin. And that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: also being a part of that action
Ti'heasha Beasley: that if you're not in a position
Ti'heasha Beasley: to go, perhaps that God has put
Ti'heasha Beasley: something on your heart so that you
Ti'heasha Beasley: can help others go. Right. And I
Ti'heasha Beasley: think you two share in that witness
Ti'heasha Beasley: as well. To be a part of
Ti'heasha Beasley: someone's story because you're a part of
Ti'heasha Beasley: that story also. Because if was not
Ti'heasha Beasley: for that person, I'm not there. Yeah,
Ti'heasha Beasley: right. And so God uses them to
Ti'heasha Beasley: bless his purpose and his mission to
Ti'heasha Beasley: continue on.
Pastor Brent McQuay: One of the things I love about
Pastor Brent McQuay: your story is all this took place
Pastor Brent McQuay: as an adult. My story, it's almost
Pastor Brent McQuay: the exact same thing, except for it
Pastor Brent McQuay: started when I was 12 and it,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but it's, it all comes down to
Pastor Brent McQuay: that first experience. Like, yeah, you realize
Pastor Brent McQuay: that the world is bigger than you
Pastor Brent McQuay: thought. That God isn't just working in
Pastor Brent McQuay: my life, in my city, in my
Pastor Brent McQuay: country, but God's at work right now
Pastor Brent McQuay: all the way around the world. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so I had that kind of eye
Pastor Brent McQuay: opening moment at 12 and just kept
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of like, you just went when
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was 12, then at 13 and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then at 14, and then I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: twice at 15 and then 16 and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then 17. Like it was just every
Pastor Brent McQuay: year I was going somewhere. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: at this point, people, somebody asked me
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually on the Philippines trip, they're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: how many trips have you been on?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm like, I have no idea how
Pastor Brent McQuay: many Countries have you been to? I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I have no idea. Like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: wish that there was a way I
Pastor Brent McQuay: could, like, figure that out, but my
Pastor Brent McQuay: memory is awful. And so, like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: literally don't even know at this point.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But all I know is if somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: asks, I'll go again. Yeah, that's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: my heart now.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it started for me at 12.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Started for you in your 30s.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's just. Just whenever you're able
Pastor Brent McQuay: to go, it's gonna mess you up.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: In a good way.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Y.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, Tyisha, where are you going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go?
Pastor Harry Valentine: All of them. I'm not going to
Pastor Harry Valentine: be here next year. I am very
Pastor Harry Valentine: encouraged, man. And I feel like just
Pastor Harry Valentine: having an opportunity to serve at the
Pastor Harry Valentine: information table yesterday for missions. Hearing some
Pastor Harry Valentine: of the questions and concerns that people
Pastor Harry Valentine: had about going on missions. I think
Pastor Harry Valentine: that this, this conversation is really going
Pastor Harry Valentine: to inspire and encourage. We had a
Pastor Harry Valentine: lot of young adults, young couples come
Pastor Harry Valentine: with kids, like, which trips are for
Pastor Harry Valentine: families? Which. So really quick. Which trips
Pastor Harry Valentine: are for families, like, good for families
Pastor Harry Valentine: that we're hosting this year.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So obviously. So the one that's going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be the best for families is
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably going to be Paraguay, which is
Pastor Brent McQuay: the one we're doing with another organization.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's actually the video that was played
Pastor Brent McQuay: after the announcements on Sunday because it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was. It was from a mother's perspective
Pastor Brent McQuay: or 3. Mom's perspective with their kids.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so that's part of like their
Pastor Brent McQuay: heart and their emphasis is like, bring.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bring your kids on a trip. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I took Jaden on his first trip.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We went to Japan actually with Harry
Pastor Brent McQuay: and we've got plans to bring Bennett.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He got. He got his international experience
Pastor Brent McQuay: without it being missions related. It was
Pastor Brent McQuay: soccer related. And so we're like, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we just broke the. The budget on
Pastor Brent McQuay: that one. So yeah, so we're trying
Pastor Brent McQuay: to figure out when to take him
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then Kelsey will get an experience.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Actually, technically, Kelsey went on the first
Pastor Brent McQuay: mission trip when she was like three.
Pastor Brent McQuay: She tagged along for a trip to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Mexico and just little, little tiny Kelsey
Pastor Brent McQuay: running around while everybody else is doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: the work. But yeah, no, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: so for families, Paraguay is a great
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip. I think Japan can be a
Pastor Brent McQuay: good trip with teenagers. So, like, if,
Pastor Brent McQuay: if Your kid is 13 or older.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We've. We've. I think we've taken. Just
Pastor Brent McQuay: about every time we've. We've done Japan,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we've taken some teenagers. So my son
Pastor Brent McQuay: went. There was a girl that was
Pastor Brent McQuay: also the same age, 13 that went.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Zion went. And then we couldn't get
Pastor Brent McQuay: him to come back home. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's now part Japanese.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He'S black and east. So messed up.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He'll tell you himself he would.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But. Yeah. So Japan could be a
Pastor Brent McQuay: really good one for teenagers especially. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then, of course, Panama is our youth
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, yeah, I think those three would
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably be the ones that I would.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I would probably target if somebody's asking,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like it. So what about a kid
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's under 13? I think the. Regulate
Pastor Brent McQuay: the requirements for Paraguay. I think they
Pastor Brent McQuay: do 8 to 8 and older. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: if they're under 8, not necessarily able
Pastor Brent McQuay: to go on that trip. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: would say for the most part, 8
Pastor Brent McQuay: would be a little bit too young
Pastor Brent McQuay: for just about any trip because at
Pastor Brent McQuay: some point, you're not really helping anything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're actually just becoming a burden on
Pastor Brent McQuay: the parents, a distraction for the parents
Pastor Brent McQuay: and for the rest of the team.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I do think that you
Pastor Brent McQuay: should probably hold off until you're a
Pastor Brent McQuay: teenager. When I went on my first
Pastor Brent McQuay: one at 12, that was probably a
Pastor Brent McQuay: good age for me to go. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I went with a bunch of other
Pastor Brent McQuay: youth and a couple of adult chaperones.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, yeah. So as a family, though,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, I'd probably target those three.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yep.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah. What are some. And both of
Pastor Harry Valentine: you just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Let's.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Let's chime in on this one. What
Pastor Harry Valentine: are some myths that people have about
Pastor Harry Valentine: missions that we want to, like, debunk
Pastor Harry Valentine: today on this show? So one of
Pastor Harry Valentine: them is, I don't have enough money.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I don't have enough money to go.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I can't afford to live in America.
Pastor Harry Valentine: So how. How do I go on
Pastor Harry Valentine: a mission trip?
Ti'heasha Beasley: And here's the thing. That's true. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: we. We serve a God who is
Ti'heasha Beasley: the source of all resource. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: our command, or the Great Commission to
Ti'heasha Beasley: go isn't. Doesn't hinge on what you
Ti'heasha Beasley: have, your. Your resources. We have to
Ti'heasha Beasley: know that it's his plan, his purpose,
Ti'heasha Beasley: which he's already planned. And so that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: what you have to trust. Don't trust
Ti'heasha Beasley: what's in your bank account because it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: not gonna add up. It's barely adding
Ti'heasha Beasley: up for the monthly bills. Right. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: when you really look past, get past
Ti'heasha Beasley: that part. Right. If you feel like
Ti'heasha Beasley: I have to, I have to. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: have to. You may need to take
Ti'heasha Beasley: some time to just really refocus God's
Ti'heasha Beasley: plan and purpose. Right. Because it's what
Ti'heasha Beasley: he has established for you, not what
Ti'heasha Beasley: you have established for yourself. And so
Ti'heasha Beasley: once you totally just say this, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: give that responsibility to the Lord. He
Ti'heasha Beasley: loves that. Right. It shows the dependent.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The dependence that we have on him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. And so when we give that
Ti'heasha Beasley: dependence over to him, he makes it
Ti'heasha Beasley: happen. Do we play a part? Absolutely.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We have to tell people our story.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right? We have to tell people what's
Ti'heasha Beasley: in our hearts. You know, why does
Ti'heasha Beasley: this resonate with them? Why should I
Ti'heasha Beasley: buy into this? Right? Why should I
Ti'heasha Beasley: get involved in sending you to the
Ti'heasha Beasley: nations or even locally? They have to
Ti'heasha Beasley: see that passion and see that you
Ti'heasha Beasley: are just as excited about what God
Ti'heasha Beasley: is doing in you that you want
Ti'heasha Beasley: them to also partner in and what
Ti'heasha Beasley: he's doing for you. So, yeah, that
Ti'heasha Beasley: would be my.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then the resource that we give
Pastor Brent McQuay: everybody that PJ kind of mentioned. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's called Manage Missions. It's where you
Pastor Brent McQuay: apply for the missions trip and everything.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But also you set up a profile
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it basically it functions like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: GoFundMe page. So it's got details of
Pastor Brent McQuay: your trip you're able to share on
Pastor Brent McQuay: social media, text it to somebody, email
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, somebody put it on your own
Pastor Brent McQuay: webpage, whatever you need to do. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just a link that you can utilize.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then from there people can make
Pastor Brent McQuay: donations to your trip. And then you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can also use it to add your
Pastor Brent McQuay: own funds to the trip as well
Pastor Brent McQuay: until you hit the target, the goal.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So with that, I think that there
Pastor Brent McQuay: are people who have literally not spent
Pastor Brent McQuay: a penny of their own money and
Pastor Brent McQuay: gone on a trip. I don't always
Pastor Brent McQuay: recommend that. I think you need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: have some skin in the game. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then also, if you've gone on three
Pastor Brent McQuay: trips that your family and friends have
Pastor Brent McQuay: paid for, at some point, they're probably
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to look at you like, am
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just paying for your vacation.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Plan.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That we need to take some ownership.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's probably some people that are like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, I don't have the money to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go on a missions trip. And yet
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you just didn't go to Starbucks
Pastor Brent McQuay: for the year, you could go to
Pastor Brent McQuay: two missions trips because your Starbucks habit
Pastor Brent McQuay: is ridiculous. And so, like, there is
Pastor Brent McQuay: a degree of sacrifice, like if you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to go on a trip, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what can you sacrifice in order to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do that?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Got to be the bacon.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, come on now.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Got to be the bacon.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're not the eggs, you're the bacon.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If you don't get that reference, maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: we'll explain it a little bit later.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or you just need to watch the
Pastor Brent McQuay: sermon because, man, I love that. Gotta
Pastor Brent McQuay: be bacon. But yeah, so I've, I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: also had people that have said, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so my family Loves to do big
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christmas gifts and big birthday gifts. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I've already told my family this year,
Pastor Brent McQuay: just put money into this account for.
Pastor Brent McQuay: For my mission trip, because next year
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm going on this trip. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think for people that if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: start early, like. Like, if you have
Pastor Brent McQuay: even an inkling that I want to
Pastor Brent McQuay: go on a trip, man, sign up
Pastor Brent McQuay: today so that you've got time to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be able to raise those funds to
Pastor Brent McQuay: utilize the resources. My dad always says,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man, anybody that you've paid money to,
Pastor Brent McQuay: ask them for support, like, it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: you got somebody that does your insurance,
Pastor Brent McQuay: give them a phone call. Hey, I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: been. You've been my insurance provider for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the last 10 years. I'm going on
Pastor Brent McQuay: a trip. Would you like to make
Pastor Brent McQuay: a donation? Absolutely. Right. My dentist, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, I come to you every twice
Pastor Brent McQuay: a year and get my cleaning done.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And, you know, what if. What if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you supported my mission? And you'd be
Pastor Brent McQuay: surprised how many businesses and organizations like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is charitable giving at that point.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's why it routes through management, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: they get tax deductible for it and
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything. So, like, you can raise funds
Pastor Brent McQuay: that way. You can do the whole,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, I'm foregoing Christmas this year. I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: got a lot of people that are
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, hey, we set aside money for
Pastor Brent McQuay: a family vacation every year, but next
Pastor Brent McQuay: year, the family vacation, we're not going
Pastor Brent McQuay: on a vacation. Instead, we're gonna go
Pastor Brent McQuay: on a missions trip, which I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: is a great idea. Just don't treat
Pastor Brent McQuay: it like it's a vacation. Right. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: missions is not vacation. Missions is not
Pastor Brent McQuay: vacation. Maybe that's the myth we need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to dispel and that now, I will
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, that doesn't mean you can't choose
Pastor Brent McQuay: a country because you've always wanted to
Pastor Brent McQuay: visit it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Sure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like having people go on the Japan
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip simply because it's Japan. And you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I've always wanted to go to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Japan. Cool. That's awesome. When you're there,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're going to be working. Yes, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be in Japan, but you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be working. You're going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: see some of the sites we always
Pastor Brent McQuay: try. Every trip we take, we try
Pastor Brent McQuay: and have some kind of fun activity
Pastor Brent McQuay: or fun day or sightseeing, something. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like you will get to experience the
Pastor Brent McQuay: culture and the city as a tourist
Pastor Brent McQuay: for at least a day. But for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the. For the rest of it, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're here to work, Come to work.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Makes sense.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, but I don't think the money
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing should become a barrier. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you have enough time, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. It's like the thousand dollars for
Pastor Brent McQuay: Elam thing. PJ mentioned it, and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: realized, oh, it's 10 weeks. Until then,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I could probably save $100 a week.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Maybe I don't eat out. Maybe
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't get Starbucks. Maybe I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: do whatever. I could find a way
Pastor Brent McQuay: to add in my budget a hundred
Pastor Brent McQuay: dollars just for this, for the next
Pastor Brent McQuay: 10 weeks. Yep. And same thing with
Pastor Brent McQuay: missions. Like, if you're going on a
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip in 10 months from now. Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: How much do you need to set
Pastor Brent McQuay: aside monthly in order to do that?
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's why budgets are important.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Budgets are good. That's good. Another myth
Pastor Harry Valentine: that came to mind, because I struggled
Pastor Harry Valentine: with this a little bit. I thought
Pastor Harry Valentine: missions was like, my life is always
Pastor Harry Valentine: in danger when I went overseas. Is
Pastor Harry Valentine: it safe to go on mission trips?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes, 100%. So we are very careful
Pastor Brent McQuay: with where we go and who we
Pastor Brent McQuay: work with. Does that mean there's never
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be any danger? I mean,
Pastor Brent McQuay: no, but if you live in Chicago,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're in danger to the same level.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, like, actually, like, okay, Japan. You're
Pastor Brent McQuay: safer in Japan than you are in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Chicago. 100%. Like, crime rates in Japan.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, literally, like, you could leave $100
Pastor Brent McQuay: bill on the floor and somebody be
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, oh, sir, you dropped this hundred
Pastor Brent McQuay: dollars. Like, it's just super uber safe.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's scary how, like, just safe.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, yeah, but. But, yeah, so we're.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're not in danger in. In that
Pastor Brent McQuay: sense. Like, we. We're very careful. We've
Pastor Brent McQuay: canceled trips because things in the country
Pastor Brent McQuay: changed. Like, we don't go to Russia
Pastor Brent McQuay: anymore. We went to Russia a few
Pastor Brent McQuay: times, and we don't do that anymore.
Pastor Brent McQuay: For. For those reasons. Israel, we had
Pastor Brent McQuay: a. We were supposed to put on
Pastor Brent McQuay: a youth camp in Israel, and actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: the location that we were going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: host the youth camp in actually became
Pastor Brent McQuay: a refugee center after the bombings. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so it was like, well, we can't
Pastor Brent McQuay: use this place. Should we try and
Pastor Brent McQuay: find another place? And it was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: let's just not like, okay, the facility
Pastor Brent McQuay: we wanted to use, we can't use
Pastor Brent McQuay: because there's bombs. Maybe we just don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: go right now because there's bombs. So,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, so we're very cautious with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: places that we go. We. We do
Pastor Brent McQuay: a lot of work in 1040 Window
Pastor Brent McQuay: nations, which can be a part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the world that is dangerous. However, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: countries in the 1040 window that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: choose are extremely safe and we're very
Pastor Brent McQuay: cautious of those things. Your safety is
Pastor Brent McQuay: important to us, not just you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Absolutely. And you can see it through
Ti'heasha Beasley: the partnerships. So our partnerships aren't one
Ti'heasha Beasley: day, two day old now. We have
Ti'heasha Beasley: some new partners that we've. We're bringing
Ti'heasha Beasley: on and whatnot. But for the most
Ti'heasha Beasley: part, we have relationship in our.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And even our two new partners, they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: both have been doing this for decades.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So it's new to us, but not
Pastor Brent McQuay: new to groups and teams and people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Absolutely. I think I've heard it. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: the moment that if something was to
Ti'heasha Beasley: happen, that would be the last time
Ti'heasha Beasley: we do missions. Right. In a sense
Ti'heasha Beasley: of like, we have to be responsible.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. In terms of that. And I've
Ti'heasha Beasley: never experienced any moment that I felt
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, oh, shit, this is a concern.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, this isn't an issue. Right. My
Ti'heasha Beasley: wife sits in that same place and
Ti'heasha Beasley: she's been on board lately because of
Ti'heasha Beasley: that. But she's definitely grown this desire
Ti'heasha Beasley: to go on the mission field.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know if I should say
Pastor Brent McQuay: this or not, but it's me. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so I say that I have been
Pastor Brent McQuay: unsafe on missions many times in my
Pastor Brent McQuay: life. Never with Christian Life center or
Pastor Brent McQuay: Disciples Church there it is so just
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying that to say we care about
Pastor Brent McQuay: safety and so we don't go to
Pastor Brent McQuay: places that are unsafe.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Okay, okay. What's some more myths? Those
Pastor Harry Valentine: are my two myths. Any that you've
Pastor Harry Valentine: heard of that you want to debunk
Pastor Harry Valentine: today?
Ti'heasha Beasley: You know, you hear about the food.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, that's a big one. Yeah, right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's one that. That comes up quite
Ti'heasha Beasley: often, especially when we do our training
Ti'heasha Beasley: before we go on any mission strip,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we do, you know, culture training. Then
Ti'heasha Beasley: we talk about, you know, in that
Ti'heasha Beasley: culture training, you talk about the food
Ti'heasha Beasley: of that culture. And yeah, everybody's palate
Ti'heasha Beasley: and kind of how they eat, dietary,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, issues.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's important.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so there is a part, right,
Ti'heasha Beasley: that you have to sacrifice. You're the
Ti'heasha Beasley: bacon, right? But if you're. If it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: gonna cause you to be ill or
Ti'heasha Beasley: sick, the entire. There's no real benefit
Ti'heasha Beasley: in that. And so we just say
Ti'heasha Beasley: that, hey, communicate, right? Be very open
Ti'heasha Beasley: about your needs so that we could
Ti'heasha Beasley: try to meet those needs. But when
Ti'heasha Beasley: we're in country, understand, like, these people
Ti'heasha Beasley: are providing the best. Right. That they
Ti'heasha Beasley: can for you. And so you want
Ti'heasha Beasley: to be respectable, you want to show
Ti'heasha Beasley: honor in that. And so we try
Ti'heasha Beasley: to do our best to communicate up
Ti'heasha Beasley: front the needs of the team. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: if any event that they can't accommodate
Ti'heasha Beasley: that we have Those conversations so that
Ti'heasha Beasley: we could be prepared in country. Right?
Pastor Harry Valentine: That's good. That's a good one.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And honestly, you'll realize quickly, food
Pastor Brent McQuay: is really good. You're actually gonna probably
Pastor Brent McQuay: eat better on missions than you eat
Pastor Brent McQuay: back home, because the preservatives and all
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, the. The stuff that Americans add
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the food like other countries don't.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, it's actually you. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: pay extra in the US to get
Pastor Brent McQuay: what you get dirt cheap in other
Pastor Brent McQuay: countries because you're. You're paying extra for,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the organic. It's all organic. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're paying extra for, like, pesticide free.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, they're like, pesticide. What are you
Pastor Brent McQuay: talking about? Pesticide? Yeah. So, like, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually going to eat very, very well
Pastor Brent McQuay: on trips, man. Especially the places that
Pastor Brent McQuay: we go. I can't think of a
Pastor Brent McQuay: single country that we're going to where
Pastor Brent McQuay: the food is bad. Like, Filipino food
Pastor Brent McQuay: is amazing. Japanese food is just ridiculous.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Croatia food was Croatia. Amazing. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: mean, so fresh.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Kenya fruit. Oh, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Eat a mango in Kenya and you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: never gonna be able to go back
Pastor Brent McQuay: home.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, what is this?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Oh, wow.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I had a little baby banana. I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, is this the size the banana
Ti'heasha Beasley: should be?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was so good. But I came
Ti'heasha Beasley: back home and reality set in.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. You'll be more disappointed with back
Pastor Brent McQuay: home. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Go on missions tomorrow.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Gonna eat good. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And we. We try and take care
Pastor Brent McQuay: of our people on trips. I will
Pastor Brent McQuay: say I did. I did have somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: that refused a meal because they're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, I'm a vegetarian. And I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, really? Because you never said anything
Pastor Brent McQuay: about being on your profile like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: did. You literally didn't. Never said any.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Didn't we have pepperoni pizza for, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: our planning meeting? And so I literally.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was like, how long have you
Pastor Brent McQuay: been a vegetarian? They're like, oh, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: started last week. And I was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: no, you didn't. You're gonna start the
Pastor Brent McQuay: week after we get back.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Oh, my goodness.
Pastor Brent McQuay: If it's really important for you. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, but, like, come on, man. Don't.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Don't pull the. Well, I'm a vegetarian
Pastor Brent McQuay: now because I just saw that food
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I was like, oh, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: want to eat that.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Come on now.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Well, you guys know life restrictions. So
Pastor Harry Valentine: as long as we're clear.
Ti'heasha Beasley: If it's on the app, it's on
Ti'heasha Beasley: the app, you know? Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Tell us.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Had that conversation, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Tell us what it is. Don't become
Pastor Brent McQuay: a vegetarian on the airplane.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm fasting for 10 days.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah, we had that one, too.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like, oh, no, I'm fasting today.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I was like, yeah, no, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not. That's not what we need today,
Pastor Brent McQuay: because the lesson. And I know this
Pastor Brent McQuay: seems really harsh, but, man, Russia, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: weren't with my team on that day
Pastor Brent McQuay: because we had split into two different
Pastor Brent McQuay: groups, but there was a guy on
Pastor Brent McQuay: our team that. They gave us borscht,
Pastor Brent McQuay: which is beet soup. It's like a
Pastor Brent McQuay: Russian thing, and it's. It's actually pretty
Pastor Brent McQuay: good. Like, they add all kinds. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: beet soup, but they add, like, cream
Pastor Brent McQuay: and all this other stuff and, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. It's pretty tasty. It's not bad.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But he just had this mental thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: of, like. It's like this weird pinkish
Pastor Brent McQuay: red soup thing. And he's just. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: was just in his head, and he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just like, I can't do it. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: every local that was in the room
Pastor Brent McQuay: is watching all of us eating, except
Pastor Brent McQuay: for this one guy not touching his
Pastor Brent McQuay: food. And they're like, what's wrong? What
Pastor Brent McQuay: can we do better? How can we
Pastor Brent McQuay: fix this? Like, they. They panicked because
Pastor Brent McQuay: he wasn't eating. And the. The sad
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing is, man, I got a feeling
Pastor Brent McQuay: that cook ended up in a ditch
Pastor Brent McQuay: somewhere because we never saw her again.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This woman disappeared, and I felt so
Pastor Brent McQuay: horrible. I felt so bad because, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we came back and, like, the. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: people were so apologetic. They're like, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: so sorry that the food wasn't to
Pastor Brent McQuay: your standards. And I'm like, it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing. It was delicious. And Vanya, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's like, but no, there was no
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, and there was no this. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was like, vanya, calm down, Vanya.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love the soup. Give me more
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that soup. Like, can I just
Pastor Brent McQuay: connect.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You have more in the back. Can
Ti'heasha Beasley: I take that to go get the
Ti'heasha Beasley: soup now?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Can you give me the recipe? Send
Pastor Brent McQuay: her back to Chicago with me. I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna open a restaurant with her as
Pastor Brent McQuay: my.
Ti'heasha Beasley: With her name on it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, you know, like. Like, I was,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I was trying so, so hard.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Literally, this woman disappeared. I think they
Pastor Brent McQuay: made her disappear. Like. Like, that was
Pastor Brent McQuay: our Russia team. That was our Russia
Pastor Brent McQuay: trip. So we did find out later
Pastor Brent McQuay: that some of the. So they. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a. Like, an outreach to drug
Pastor Brent McQuay: addicts and stuff. And we realized there
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a lot of former, like, gang
Pastor Brent McQuay: members and drug dealers in the church,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and they actually have a business meeting
Pastor Brent McQuay: every month, and there's, like, Mafia people
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the business meeting. Like. Like, A
Pastor Brent McQuay: prophet came through. I guess the week
Pastor Brent McQuay: before we were there. I think I
Pastor Brent McQuay: might have shared the story before. A
Pastor Brent McQuay: prophet was there, like, the week before.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he's like, I don't know who
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is in this room, but there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody here that you have plans to
Pastor Brent McQuay: kill your boss.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Oh, my goodness.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just want you to know that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That God says, don't. And all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: a sudden, the guy was like, thank
Pastor Brent McQuay: you, Jesus. This dude was straight up
Pastor Brent McQuay: about to murder someone. And the prophet.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Safe prophet was like, yeah, don't do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is life of a believing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And he's in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: church. Like, this isn't. Like, this was
Pastor Brent McQuay: an outreach. This is a member of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the church.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm thinking of Kelly. Like, I'm gonna
Pastor Harry Valentine: murk this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm about to murk this guy. So.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. So I don't know what happened
Pastor Brent McQuay: to that cook, that woman, but it
Pastor Brent McQuay: did create a great opportunity to talk
Pastor Brent McQuay: with the team and say, hey, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is why it's important to actually enjoy
Pastor Brent McQuay: and eat the food that is served
Pastor Brent McQuay: to you. Like, we're gonna. We're gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: do our part to make sure that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's safe and it's healthy and that
Pastor Brent McQuay: nobody's giving you anything bad. But even
Pastor Brent McQuay: if it's not something you like, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: eat it with a smile, and we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: happy to, because they are sacrificing in
Pastor Brent McQuay: order to do this. Like, it's different
Pastor Brent McQuay: if we're all going to a restaurant,
Pastor Brent McQuay: which that'll happen on trips. You'll go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to a restaurant. If you don't like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the food, that's no big deal. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you're in somebody's home or they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: bringing. They're cooking for you at the
Pastor Brent McQuay: church, it's like, man, this is. This
Pastor Brent McQuay: is an opportunity to be loving and
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind and gracious and to say, wow,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can't believe you did this for
Pastor Brent McQuay: me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it. In all reality, am I
Pastor Brent McQuay: ever going to a restaurant to order
Pastor Brent McQuay: borscht? No. No, I'm not. Because beet
Pastor Brent McQuay: soup is not high on my priority
Pastor Brent McQuay: list. Sure. However, that beet soup was
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing because that woman, she made it
Pastor Brent McQuay: with. She did. And her heart. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was just. Yeah. So it's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: lessons to learn.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Even with that, they laid it out,
Ti'heasha Beasley: man. I tell you how many course,
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was like, this isn't. This isn't
Ti'heasha Beasley: the main course.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We finished eating at our group and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then came to your group, and they
Pastor Brent McQuay: get us more food spritz.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Oh, my goodness.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it's like, oh, we had a
Ti'heasha Beasley: running. And you will look around the
Ti'heasha Beasley: table. Cause we did have a team,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, powwow. But we start to
Ti'heasha Beasley: say, take one for the team. Right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So if you can't finish your plate,
Ti'heasha Beasley: who on the team at the table?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think Harry ate, like, four plates
Pastor Brent McQuay: one day, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Come on, let's do it. Because we
Ti'heasha Beasley: have to.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right, Another one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's just what it is. You have
Ti'heasha Beasley: to make it work. Some people, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I got you. Don't worry. Soul took
Ti'heasha Beasley: a few days. Soul, man, I got
Ti'heasha Beasley: you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because that's that missions mentality.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's, you know, it's more than just,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, coming to share the word,
Ti'heasha Beasley: share the gospel in your actions. That's
Ti'heasha Beasley: what you're doing, that very thing. Right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Your actions are actually showing that. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: the.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The joy that you see on whoever
Pastor Brent McQuay: provided the food or prepared the food.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The joy that you see in their
Pastor Brent McQuay: face when you're smiling and enjoying the
Pastor Brent McQuay: food. When you compliment them, like, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they light up. It's like, man, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is the greatest day ever. Like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: got to cook for these Americans, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: they loved my food.
Pastor Harry Valentine: It's amazing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's a cool moment. That's also when
Pastor Brent McQuay: I learned that Russians have a different
Pastor Brent McQuay: definition of salad than the rest of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the world.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because when you say salad, you think
Pastor Brent McQuay: vegetables.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yes. Lettuce, specifically.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Not Russians.
Pastor Harry Valentine: What? Salad?
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like sliced up, ham and cheese.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Cheese.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like chicken stuff.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Big.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it's big. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But there was not a single vegetable
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the thing. No, it was meat,
Pastor Brent McQuay: cheese, and cream.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But it's like, we ate three times
Ti'heasha Beasley: before we had the main meal. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's like. You're like, it don't stop.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What you gonna do? You're gonna eat.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That first.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That first meal, it was like, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: this was so good. And then they
Pastor Brent McQuay: brought out more food.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was like, oh, what'd you call
Ti'heasha Beasley: that?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh, we're doing this again.
Pastor Harry Valentine: My goodness.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it's good. You'll eat really well
Pastor Brent McQuay: on trips.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Sure.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You absolutely will, man.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I love that this was the stories,
Pastor Harry Valentine: the encouragement. I think everyone that watched
Pastor Harry Valentine: this episode is going to be like,
Pastor Harry Valentine: sign me up for sure, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Unless I scared them off with.
Pastor Harry Valentine: No, I think. Yeah, with the Russian.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Russian mafia.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The Lord did it. We don't go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Russia right now. No.
Pastor Harry Valentine: But I think, like, overall, man, it
Pastor Harry Valentine: was just a good conversation just to
Pastor Harry Valentine: hear your stories. And, man, I'm encouraged.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm inspired to go on some trips.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm Sam signed me and David up
Pastor Harry Valentine: in Neo. Let's Go. But I feel
Pastor Harry Valentine: like the message yesterday, let's kind of
Pastor Harry Valentine: end with that. That eggs and bacon
Pastor Harry Valentine: analogy that was utilized, because if. If
Pastor Harry Valentine: you didn't watch the sermon, if you
Pastor Harry Valentine: weren't able to attend in person, go
Pastor Harry Valentine: and look at that latest sermon. It's
Pastor Harry Valentine: really good. But let's kind of end
Pastor Harry Valentine: there because I feel like when he
Pastor Harry Valentine: gave that analogy, I was, like, shook
Pastor Harry Valentine: it. Is that a way to say
Pastor Harry Valentine: it? Because I. We do have that
Pastor Harry Valentine: egg mentality I'm going to give from
Pastor Harry Valentine: the abundance of what I have.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So let's explain it real quick because.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I'm about to go deep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So it's an old, like, preacher story
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's been around for a while, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's this idea of there's a farm.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's a pig and a chicken on
Pastor Brent McQuay: this farm. And they are talking to
Pastor Brent McQuay: each other and they say, you know
Pastor Brent McQuay: what? It's the farmer's birthday tomorrow. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: should do something special for the farmer.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so the pig says, well, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, I agree, we should. He takes
Pastor Brent McQuay: such good care of us, feeds us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, like what? What do you have
Pastor Brent McQuay: in mind? What should we do to
Pastor Brent McQuay: appreciate the farmer? So the chicken says,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, I was thinking that we would
Pastor Brent McQuay: make him breakfast, you know, because he
Pastor Brent McQuay: cares for us and so we can
Pastor Brent McQuay: make him breakfast. And the pig's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's a great idea. What do you
Pastor Brent McQuay: want to make him? And the chicken
Pastor Brent McQuay: says, well, I think that we can
Pastor Brent McQuay: make him bacon and eggs. You know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a good, hearty breakfast. Bacon and
Pastor Brent McQuay: eggs. And the pigs kind of staring
Pastor Brent McQuay: at him for a second. And the
Pastor Brent McQuay: chicken says, you know, I can donate
Pastor Brent McQuay: the eggs and you can donate the
Pastor Brent McQuay: bacon. The pig goes, whoa, whoa, whoa,
Pastor Brent McQuay: whoa, wait a minute. For you, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just a gift. For me, that's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: total sacrifice. And that's the idea of
Pastor Brent McQuay: following Christ, is sometimes we try and
Pastor Brent McQuay: just give eggs.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we're not the chicken, we're the
Pastor Brent McQuay: pig. And so the Bible actually tells
Pastor Brent McQuay: us to crucify ourselves, to pick up
Pastor Brent McQuay: our cross daily, to sacrifice. It's those
Pastor Brent McQuay: who want to save their life that
Pastor Brent McQuay: lose it. But those who lose their
Pastor Brent McQuay: life for his sake are the ones
Pastor Brent McQuay: that find it. And so there's this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This concept in Christianity that we're the
Pastor Brent McQuay: pig, not the chicken. And sometimes we
Pastor Brent McQuay: just try and say, oh, well, for
Pastor Brent McQuay: missions, I'm just gonna give my eggs.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And God's blessed me with a whole
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of eggs. And that's good. That's
Pastor Brent McQuay: great. Like it. That needs to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a part of It. But at what
Pastor Brent McQuay: point do you recognize that you're actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: supposed to make a sacrifice? No.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Are you chicken?
Pastor Harry Valentine: I've been chicken. I want to be
Pastor Harry Valentine: a pig in this next season of
Pastor Harry Valentine: my life.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No more eggs, More bacon.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I. My bacon moment.
Pastor Brent McQuay: My stomach's grumbling right now. Bacon talk.
Pastor Brent McQuay: See, the borscht didn't make my stomach
Pastor Brent McQuay: growl.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Soon he said bacon is. That's it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I guess my bacon moment was in
Ti'heasha Beasley: India.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay. We didn't even mention you went
Pastor Brent McQuay: to India.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Harry Valentine: There we go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Can you imagine a 12 passenger van
Ti'heasha Beasley: with 16 people? Two of those passengers
Ti'heasha Beasley: are drivers. So you take away that
Ti'heasha Beasley: too. Six, 16 and a 12. It's
Ti'heasha Beasley: not comfortable. And we got into this
Ti'heasha Beasley: van. 100 plus degrees every day. It's
Ti'heasha Beasley: not. Oh, did you get the wind?
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, no wind. Sticky. But we have
Ti'heasha Beasley: a picture of all of us. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: we. Our luggage was. They took our
Ti'heasha Beasley: luggage in another van, another car. Excuse
Ti'heasha Beasley: me, a car. And so we had
Ti'heasha Beasley: like three people in the back where
Ti'heasha Beasley: your luggage would be. I mean, like
Ti'heasha Beasley: this. It's like, who's gonna sacrifice this
Ti'heasha Beasley: moment? Right. We had to play Tetris.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We get in there, but we have
Ti'heasha Beasley: a picture. And everyone. Not because we're
Ti'heasha Beasley: taking a picture for candid views or
Ti'heasha Beasley: whatever. Everyone's smiling.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Big smile, Sweaty hot. Elbow to elbow.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Shoulder to shoulder. Tight in this van.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because we were just all ecstatic about
Ti'heasha Beasley: what God was about to do through
Ti'heasha Beasley: us. Like this. All we kept saying,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, God is really about to do
Ti'heasha Beasley: something. And it was that sacrifice being
Ti'heasha Beasley: uncomfortable. So I'm standing on the stage
Ti'heasha Beasley: on the last day for 10 days
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the hot sun. Summer camp for
Ti'heasha Beasley: youth. And I'm looking out on these
Ti'heasha Beasley: man. 400, 500 orphans.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And I had. This is why God
Ti'heasha Beasley: wanted me to be here for this
Ti'heasha Beasley: moment. And I realized none of these
Ti'heasha Beasley: kids know their parents, but every smile
Ti'heasha Beasley: of joy, they know their heavenly Father
Ti'heasha Beasley: as the one who loves them and
Ti'heasha Beasley: cares for them. That was the moment
Ti'heasha Beasley: for me.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's beautiful.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was sacrifice to see. This is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is it. I'm grateful to have
Ti'heasha Beasley: my parents, but the joy on their
Ti'heasha Beasley: faces and just the surrender of worship
Ti'heasha Beasley: they have experienced. The love of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: Father.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That we don't understand oftentimes because we
Ti'heasha Beasley: have this. I say it casual Christianity,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like we. But in that moment, the
Ti'heasha Beasley: love that God has just poured on
Ti'heasha Beasley: them in the absence of their biological
Ti'heasha Beasley: parents. I said, no, Lord, I will
Ti'heasha Beasley: do this. I will be the bacon.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Anytime you say go, I'm going.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because of these moments. Yep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love it. Yep. I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's one of the cool things about
Pastor Brent McQuay: going on a trip is at some
Pastor Brent McQuay: point on every trip you're gonna have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a bacon moment. Because it is, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: hard. You know, I don't want to
Pastor Brent McQuay: sugarcoat it. Like, it's work. It's longer
Pastor Brent McQuay: days and longer hours than you're probably
Pastor Brent McQuay: used to. You know, there's gonna be
Pastor Brent McQuay: something that's gonna push you out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: your comfort zone. You know, you might
Pastor Brent McQuay: be the person's like, you know, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: like being behind the scenes and in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the back and it's like, okay, go
Pastor Brent McQuay: lead the devotional with this group of
Pastor Brent McQuay: 100 kids, you know, and so like
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's, there's going to be a bacon
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment, I think, on every trip. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: what I love about it is it
Pastor Brent McQuay: prepares you to be bacon when you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: back home.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's true.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like you, you experience a missions field
Pastor Brent McQuay: where it's almost like you don't really
Pastor Brent McQuay: have much of a choice but to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be bacon. Like, it's, it's, it's easier
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the missions field. It really is
Pastor Brent McQuay: sacrifice and to say because you're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, I'm here. But then when you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: back home and things are comfortable and
Pastor Brent McQuay: things are easy and you get to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be in control of your schedule, not
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody else, and you get to make
Pastor Brent McQuay: choices of what time you're gonna wake
Pastor Brent McQuay: up and what time you're gonna go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to bed. What I found is that
Pastor Brent McQuay: those missions moments better prepare me for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the sacrifice of just a random Tuesday
Pastor Brent McQuay: in Tinley Park.
Pastor Harry Valentine: I was gonna ask you to, to.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Instead of us lining the plane individually,
Pastor Harry Valentine: I was going to ask you to
Pastor Harry Valentine: just speak to your, the, your family,
Pastor Harry Valentine: your church family, those who are call
Pastor Harry Valentine: themselves members here at DC and encourage
Pastor Harry Valentine: them to, to take that step. But
Pastor Harry Valentine: you kind of did it. But I
Pastor Harry Valentine: don't know if you have something additional
Pastor Harry Valentine: you want to do as you close
Pastor Harry Valentine: us out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, no, I, I do think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: anybody that calls themselves a disciple should
Pastor Brent McQuay: go. And yes, that, that, that has
Pastor Brent McQuay: varying meanings for everybody. But I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: that every, every American believer needs to
Pastor Brent McQuay: experience missions because we can get very
Pastor Brent McQuay: confused about faith and Christianity and following
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus because there's so much American culture
Pastor Brent McQuay: weaved into different things and it can
Pastor Brent McQuay: become very like, we become very egocentric
Pastor Brent McQuay: and very like self focused. And especially
Pastor Brent McQuay: for young people like that don't realize
Pastor Brent McQuay: that the world is bigger than what
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're experiencing. And so I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: everybody needs to experience missions at least
Pastor Brent McQuay: once in their life. The bait and
Pastor Brent McQuay: switch on you is you experience it
Pastor Brent McQuay: once, and you become like Harry. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: now you've gone to 10 different trips
Pastor Brent McQuay: over the last 10 years. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're gonna want to do more, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: start with one. At least get an
Pastor Brent McQuay: experience of, I'm in another country because
Pastor Brent McQuay: God saved me, and it's my responsibility
Pastor Brent McQuay: to pass that on to somebody else.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That if I go through my entire
Pastor Brent McQuay: life and all that happened for me
Pastor Brent McQuay: was I got to go to heaven,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but nobody else was affected by my
Pastor Brent McQuay: salvation. Like, you've wasted the gospel almost.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I know that sounds harsh and
Pastor Brent McQuay: that sounds strong, but, like, man, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: my heart as a pastor is it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: got to be about more than just
Pastor Brent McQuay: me. It's got to be about more
Pastor Brent McQuay: than just you. Like, at some point,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's a great big world that needs
Pastor Brent McQuay: to know about Jesus. And so you've
Pastor Brent McQuay: been privileged, especially if you're living in
Pastor Brent McQuay: this country. Like, by. By definition, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: are privileged. Like, we like to talk
Pastor Brent McQuay: about. Oh, the 1 percenters. Well, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: are a 1 percenter. If you live
Pastor Brent McQuay: in America. Like, it's like, if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: make. What was the stat? It was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, if you make more than, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: $26,000 a year, you're in, like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: 1% of the world's population of income.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's crazy. And so we. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to recognize that we've been blessed
Pastor Brent McQuay: so that we can be a blessing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I know that for. For
Pastor Brent McQuay: some people, it's like, man, I can't
Pastor Brent McQuay: even imagine a world where I'd be
Pastor Brent McQuay: able to raise the money to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: on a trip. Okay, start now. Start
Pastor Brent McQuay: in 2025. Start setting aside money in
Pastor Brent McQuay: a. In a fund, Even if it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: $5 a week, $5 a month. Starting.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Start an account. Go on a trip
Pastor Brent McQuay: in 20, 30. Figure it out. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but let's go. Everybody should go.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Everybody should go. Well, thank you, Pastor
Pastor Harry Valentine: Harry, for sharing your passion. We felt
Pastor Harry Valentine: it. Oh, we felt the passion. Thank
Pastor Harry Valentine: you for being on the show. And
Pastor Harry Valentine: thank you, Pastor. Yes, thank you, Pastor
Pastor Harry Valentine: Brent, for leading us in the.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That is following what. What my dad
Pastor Brent McQuay: set up. Yeah, he's the missionary.
Pastor Harry Valentine: You caught it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so he passed that heart on
Pastor Brent McQuay: to me. And from 12 to 41.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Now, that's. Why'd you give me that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man? Your old. Look like you ain't
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same age.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Right? We all the same age on
Pastor Harry Valentine: the show.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He called it, too.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we ain't 123 combined.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Not combined.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Wouldn't that be our combined age? 123,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man. We old.
Pastor Harry Valentine: We all. It's a lot. Anyway, let's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Aisha, what happened to you? When did
Pastor Brent McQuay: you get so old?
Pastor Harry Valentine: Well, no, that's not me. Keep that
Pastor Harry Valentine: over there. Keep that energy over there.
Pastor Harry Valentine: Six, seven. But we're gonna close. We're
Pastor Harry Valentine: gonna close. I think this was a
Pastor Harry Valentine: great show. I love that our church
Pastor Harry Valentine: have our heart for missions, and we
Pastor Harry Valentine: have a lot of new faces and
Pastor Harry Valentine: members a part of our family here
Pastor Harry Valentine: at D.C. and we're just excited for
Pastor Harry Valentine: you to take this continued journey with
Pastor Harry Valentine: us as we go out. Be one,
Pastor Harry Valentine: make one. We're taking this mindset from
Pastor Harry Valentine: here, being local and just allowing God
Pastor Harry Valentine: to call us to go where he
Pastor Harry Valentine: would have us go and in the
Pastor Harry Valentine: nations. But it does start here. And
Pastor Harry Valentine: so we just encourage you to keep
Pastor Harry Valentine: coming, showing up, getting involved with your
Pastor Harry Valentine: communities. Ask your friend, like, where are
Pastor Harry Valentine: we going next year on a missions
Pastor Harry Valentine: trip? Get involved with your communities. I
Pastor Harry Valentine: love that we have, like, a community
Pastor Harry Valentine: heart here. So we just. I hope
Pastor Harry Valentine: this episode encouraged you. Until next time.
Pastor Harry Valentine: We love you. Take care.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Sam.